[MUSIC]
>> Joe Nelson: So the next one is
separating mutation from calculation or
at least isolating the places
that mutation happens,
because those are the tricky
parts to reason about.
Because the order that
you do things matters.
So if you can make most your code kind
of pure, and then at the very end or
wherever plug in the parts that change,
it's gonna help out.
So for instance in this case, the scenario
here is kind of a simplification.
So imagine you have a blog online and you
have, oops, I made it advance the slide.
Imagine you have a blog and
you have the articles in your blog.
And there is a front page and
there's read more for each one and
there's kind of a teaser
where it shortens it.
So we're gonna make a function where
you give it a div or something and
it just shortens it down.
Now in a real teaser you'd wanna break
at the, not cut a word in half, or
hopefully even not cut a sentence in half.
But for the purpose of this
simplification, our teaser function,
you just give how many characters and
an element on the page.
So we have teaser cut it down to 25
letters or whatever and do it to this div.
And we so
have these kind of imaginary functions.
And some of them are not
actually imaginary.
We'll get them in our libraries
we're gonna be using.
But in this one we have, so
how would this teaser work, the one
that just goes out and changes things?
It says set the text of a certain element
where you're slicing the string down.
So you get the text of the elements,
actually I can point with my pointer.
So this guy says grab
the text out of the element.
And then slice it down to size,
from zero to the thing, and
then take that and set the text of
the element with the sliced down version.
I mean that's pretty simple, right?
How are we even going to fix that up?
It seems like that's about all you can do.
But if we go down we see where's
the mutation happening here?
If I were to say over all the paragraphs
on the page, make them a teaser.
So I'm saying map this teasering of
50 to those things, and the way we're
able to do that 50 is actually a little
complicated, but we'll get to it.
If we're teasering all the elements,
where does mutation happen?
It happens at the teaser itself.
So teaser, our teaser's simple.
It just chops by a certain
number of characters.
If you had a real teaser that
you wanted to test, great,
how are we gonna test this thing?
We actually have to have
DOM elements again.
We have to mock those DOM
elements out in our test,
the same way we had pretend to be time and
change time.
In order to test that this teaser
thing is chopping something down,
in our test we have to recreate a fake DOM
like you would, and apply it and check.
So instead we could make
the mutation much smaller, and
the specific functions we have
here like compose the stuff,
you're gonna be introduced to those, but
the point is I can just walk through.
This, so here the teaser's a lot shorter.
It's just slice itself and it could be
more complicated but here it's just slice.
And so the code that used to say take
teaser, map it all over the over the p's,
says map this new thing.
It's a function which says take the text,
teaser it,
and then set it, and
do it on all the paragraphs.
And if the specific
functions we're using seem
out of the blue you'll
be seeing them more.
The point is the mutation on
one is happening on teaser and
the mutation of the other's
happening only on setText.
Teaser doesn't go out and change the DOM.
You're just given strings.
So, first things we
recognize are separating
inputs from just random other things,
like arguments from environment, and
here separating mutation from calculation.
There are functions that all
they do is calculate, and
there are functions that change
things about the environment.
If you have some functional programming
experience, this is probably a little slow
for you, but that's just something I
wanted to mention about separation.